How exactly did life begin?|How did we get from the "primordial soup" of the building blocks of life to the formation of self-replicating cells?
Why do we dream?|Humans certainly do dream, as evidenced by advanced brain imaging technology, but what purpose does it serve? Why do our neurons keep firing even as our body and conscious mind are at rest?
Is there a pattern behind prime numbers?|Counting up from 1, you can have three prime numbers in a row, but then go forty or more numbers without finding another prime. AMERICA EXPLAINNNN
Can we travel through time?|We all, of course, travel forward through time at a regular, and Einstein's theory of special relativity posits that time can be compressed such that a person going fast enough might be able to travel far into the future. Using concepts like wormholes, some physicists have even suggested that it might be possible to visit the past. But if that were the case, wouldn't people from the future be able to live among us today?
Is our universe the only one?|Similar to time travel, interdimensional travel is another beloved sci-fi concept that seems to offer limitless potential. Are there in fact parallel universes out there, coexisting with our own?
What exactly is consciousness?|The concept of consciousness exists in the gray area where science meets philosophy. What is this quality that you and I have that makes us aware of ourselves, that allows us to think and hope and create?
Where is all the antimatter?|What's so perplexing about these experiments is that scientists perform them in an attempt to understand the Big Bang, which is thought to have created all the matter in the universe. However, if creating matter means creating an equal amount of antimatter at the same time, why does our universe—full of matter as it is—exist at all? Where did all that antimatter go, and why didn't it cancel out the matter?
Is the ocean the real final frontier?|The organisms that we've found so far are, in scientific terms, just plain weird. There are tube worms that live on sulfur vents and fish with transparent heads and a substance that might help treat Alzheimer's disease. What else haven't we found yet?
Do we have to die?|We already live much longer—and healthier—lives than our ancestors did, so is there a limit to how long science can extend a human life?
How fast and small can computers be?|Comparing the room-sized, punch card computers of the 1960s to the phones we now carry in our pockets is almost comical. To the programmers of 50 years ago, a smartphone would seem like the most outlandish science-fiction. Is this trend going to continue? Will computers become infinitely smaller and more powerful?
Will artificial intelligence happen?|Amusingly, scientists have been saying that AI technology is probably about 15-20 years in the future since the 1960s. One problem is how to define success—is it simulating human behavior or improving upon human skills like pattern recognition?
How big will the population get?|As of 1987, there were 5 billion human beings on the planet. We passed 6 billion in 1999 and 7 billion in 2011, and the best estimates show us passing 8 billion by 2023. So… is there a limit?
Will we ever know everything?|This question gets to the heart of the scientific method: observing a phenomenon, creating a model or narrative that describes the phenomenon, and using that model to make predictions. However, the science of the past few centuries has surpassed what we can observe with the naked eye, so new discoveries have relied on increasingly complicated technology. The tools we have are imperfect and therefore limited, so how much can we really know? We may never be able to create a model that describes everything, but how close can we get?
How big is the universe?|Right now, we can use telescopes of various kinds to "see" about 46.5 billion light-years in every direction. However, no scientist thinks the universe stops existing at the distance we can no longer observe it. How far, then, does it extend?
What happened before the Big Bang?|While the word "bang" brings to mind an explosion, the Big Bang is better described as the moment that space itself began to expand and physics as we know it began. The problem is that we need physics itself to describe the universe, so asking what the universe was like before physics is like asking what's south of the South Pole, right?
Can we download our brains into computers?|As computers increase in speed and complexity, we're getting close to the day when artificial technology can approximate the power of the human brain. But is that really possible?
How smart can one person be?|Before anyone can answer this question, they have to settle on a definition of intelligence. Is it merely IQ? Memory? The ability to do several complex tasks at the same time? The ability to create?
Will we ever be able to predict economic crashes?|Economics is a science, too, though its predictions have yet to prove valuable on a macro scale. In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, many people asked, "How did nobody see this coming?"
What makes us human?|We know instinctively whether an organism or machine is human or not. Animals like parrots and dolphins might have something approaching human intelligence, but few would argue that alone makes them human. Nor would people say that chimpanzees, our closest relatives with whom we share 96% of our genetic material, are totally equivalent to people. Where is the dividing line? Would we know it if we saw it? Is personhood possible outside of Homo sapiens sapiens? We have no definitive test that can give a yes or no answer.
Is it nature or nurture?|Just because this question is an old one doesn't mean it isn't still relevant. We understand genetics better than we ever have, but how much of who we are comes from our DNA and how much comes from the environment we were raised in?
Are we alone in the universe?|"Space is big," wrote novelist Douglas Adams. "Really big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely, mind-bogglingly big it is." How can we truly say there's no other life out there when we've only explored the tiniest fraction of it? 